# Overview
Procedure switching need to:
1. **Pass control** by changing contents of `PC`
2. **Pass data**, mainly arguments

This is done with:
1. **Registers**
2. Memory in the form of the runtime stack


# Timeline
Say that procedure `main` calls procedure `func`.

1. Caller-saved registers that will be modified in `func` are saved, probably with the `push` instruction. This probably takes place at the start of procedure `main`.
2. `main`'s stack frame allocates an area called the **argument build area**, where argument no. 7 and beyond for `func` are stored. These arguments are 8-byte-aligned. Note that no. 7 is at the top of the stack.
3. The **return address** (i.e. the instruction following `call`) is added to `main`'s stack frame. Note that this changes the address of `func`'s arguments relative to `%rsp`.
4. When the size of the stack frame cannot be certain, `%rbp` is inserted to separate the two frames. `%rbp` can be used for restoring `%rsp`.
5. The `call` instruction is run, which load's `func`'s initial address to `PC`.
6. `func` is now running! To access extra-register arguments, addresses relative to `%rsp` are used.
7. **Callee-saved registers** are saved, possibly with the `push` instruction.
8. While `func`'s running, some **local data** might be stored to the runtime stack. This includes:
	- Local data that will not fit in the registers
	- Local variables to which the address operator `&` is applied, thus they must have a memory address with which they can be referred to
	- Arrays or structures
	These local data are not aligned.
8. When we reach the `ret` instruction, `func`'s stack frame is deallocated, and the return address at the top of `main`'s stack frame is moved to `PC`, and will be the next instruction to be executed.


# Alignment
1. **Arguments:** 8-byte aligned, aligned to the right
2. **Local Variables:** not aligned, to the left
3. **Heterogenous Data Structures**


# Misc
1. `call` can call labels(direct) or addresses stored in registers or memory(indirect), much like `j` class instructions.
2. The registers used for the first 6 arguments:
![/img//img//img/截屏2022-09-28 上午11.25.19.png]]
3. `%rbx`, `%rbp` and `%r12` to `%r15` are callee-saved. Others are caller-saved.
4. Recursive procedures have to be reenterable. 
5. Recursive procedures often uses one register to store a local yet recurring value. This value is then used to modifiy the return value at every procedure with the `pop` instruction.
6. The order of stack frames can be seen as the pre-sequence traversal of the procedure call tree.